README.rst, before:

``pip2pi`` builds a PyPI-compatible package repository from ``pip`` requirements
================================================================================

PyPI can go down, package maintainers can remove old tarballs, and downloading
tarballs can take a long time. ``pip2pi`` helps to alleviate these problems by
making it blindingly simple to maintain a PyPI-compatible repository of packages
your software depends on.


Status
------

These tools were developed to be used internally, and they appear to work for
me. A quick glance at the code will make it obvious that they are far from
robust (ex, they probably won't work on Windows and they make a few calls to
shell commands that could be implemented in Python)... But they should work,
and they shouldn't eat your data or steal private keys or anything.


Requirements
------------

0. ``pip``
1. A ``requirements.txt`` file for your project (optional, but useful)
2. An HTTP server (optional, but useful)


Setup
-----

Create the directory which will contain the tarballs of required packages,
preferably somewhere under your web server's document root::

    $ mkdir /var/www/packages/


Mirroring Packages
------------------

To mirror a package and all of its requirements, use ``pip2tgz``::

    $ pip2tgz packages/ foo==1.2
    ...
    $ ls packages/
    foo-1.2.tar.gz
    bar-0.8.tar.gz

Note that ``pip2tgz`` passes package arguments directly to ``pip``, so packages
can be specified in any format that ``pip`` recognizes::

    $ cat requirements.txt
    foo==1.2
    http://example.com/baz-0.3.tar.gz
    $ pip2tgz packages/ -r requirements.txt bam-2.3/
    ...
    $ ls packages/
    foo-1.2.tar.gz
    bar-0.8.tar.gz
    baz-0.3.tar.gz
    bam-2.3.tar.gz


Building a Package Index
------------------------

A directory full of ``.tar.gz`` files can be turned into PyPI-compatible
"simple" package index using the ``dir2pi`` command::

    $ ls packages/
    bar-0.8.tar.gz
    baz-0.3.tar.gz
    foo-1.2.tar.gz
    $ dir2pi packages/
    $ find packages/
    packages/
    packages/bar-0.8.tar.gz
    packages/baz-0.3.tar.gz
    packages/foo-1.2.tar.gz
    packages/simple
    packages/simple/bar
    packages/simple/bar/bar-0.8.tar.gz
    packages/simple/baz
    packages/simple/baz/baz-0.3.tar.gz
    packages/simple/foo
    packages/simple/foo/foo-1.2.tar.gz


But that's a lot of work...
---------------------------

If running two commands seems like too much work... Take heart! The ``pip2pi``
command will run both of them for you... **And** it will use ``rsync`` to copy
the new packages and index to a remote host! ::

    $ pip2pi example.com:/var/www/packages/ foo==1.2
    ...
    $ curl -I http://example.com/packages/simple/foo/foo-1.2.tar.gz | head -n1
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK


But that's still too much work...
.................................

Take heart! Your shell's ``alias`` command can help. Add an alias like this to
your shell's runtime configuration file (hint: ``~/.bashrc`` or similar)::

    alias pip2acmeco="pip2pi dev.acmeco.com:/var/www/packages/

Now updating your package index will be as simple as::

    $ pip2acmeco foo==1.2 -r bar/requirements.txt


Using Your New Package Index
----------------------------

To use the new package index, pass the ``--use-index=`` argument to ``pip``::

    $ pip install --use-index=http://example.com/packages/simple/ foo

Or, once it has been mirrored, prefix you ``requirements.txt`` with
``--use-index=...``::

    $ cat requirements.txt
    --use-index=http://example.com/packages/simple/
    foo==1.2


Keywords
========

* Mirror PyPI
* Offline PyPI
* Create offline PyPI mirror

Commit message:

Adding 'pip install pip2pi' to docs

README.rst, after:

``pip2pi`` builds a PyPI-compatible package repository from ``pip`` requirements
================================================================================

PyPI can go down, package maintainers can remove old tarballs, and downloading
tarballs can take a long time. ``pip2pi`` helps to alleviate these problems by
making it blindingly simple to maintain a PyPI-compatible repository of packages
your software depends on.


Status
------

These tools were developed to be used internally, and they appear to work for
me. A quick glance at the code will make it obvious that they are far from
robust (ex, they probably won't work on Windows and they make a few calls to
shell commands that could be implemented in Python)... But they should work,
and they shouldn't eat your data or steal private keys or anything.


Requirements
------------

0. ``pip``
1. A ``requirements.txt`` file for your project (optional, but useful)
2. An HTTP server (optional, but useful)


Setup
-----

Install ``pip2pi``::

    $ pip install pip2pi

And create the directory which will contain the tarballs of required packages,
preferably somewhere under your web server's document root::

    $ mkdir /var/www/packages/


Mirroring Packages
------------------

To mirror a package and all of its requirements, use ``pip2tgz``::

    $ pip2tgz packages/ foo==1.2
    ...
    $ ls packages/
    foo-1.2.tar.gz
    bar-0.8.tar.gz

Note that ``pip2tgz`` passes package arguments directly to ``pip``, so packages
can be specified in any format that ``pip`` recognizes::

    $ cat requirements.txt
    foo==1.2
    http://example.com/baz-0.3.tar.gz
    $ pip2tgz packages/ -r requirements.txt bam-2.3/
    ...
    $ ls packages/
    foo-1.2.tar.gz
    bar-0.8.tar.gz
    baz-0.3.tar.gz
    bam-2.3.tar.gz


Building a Package Index
------------------------

A directory full of ``.tar.gz`` files can be turned into PyPI-compatible
"simple" package index using the ``dir2pi`` command::

    $ ls packages/
    bar-0.8.tar.gz
    baz-0.3.tar.gz
    foo-1.2.tar.gz
    $ dir2pi packages/
    $ find packages/
    packages/
    packages/bar-0.8.tar.gz
    packages/baz-0.3.tar.gz
    packages/foo-1.2.tar.gz
    packages/simple
    packages/simple/bar
    packages/simple/bar/bar-0.8.tar.gz
    packages/simple/baz
    packages/simple/baz/baz-0.3.tar.gz
    packages/simple/foo
    packages/simple/foo/foo-1.2.tar.gz


But that's a lot of work...
---------------------------

If running two commands seems like too much work... Take heart! The ``pip2pi``
command will run both of them for you... **And** it will use ``rsync`` to copy
the new packages and index to a remote host! ::

    $ pip2pi example.com:/var/www/packages/ foo==1.2
    ...
    $ curl -I http://example.com/packages/simple/foo/foo-1.2.tar.gz | head -n1
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK


But that's still too much work...
.................................

Take heart! Your shell's ``alias`` command can help. Add an alias like this to
your shell's runtime configuration file (hint: ``~/.bashrc`` or similar)::

    alias pip2acmeco="pip2pi dev.acmeco.com:/var/www/packages/

Now updating your package index will be as simple as::

    $ pip2acmeco foo==1.2 -r bar/requirements.txt


Using Your New Package Index
----------------------------

To use the new package index, pass the ``--use-index=`` argument to ``pip``::

    $ pip install --use-index=http://example.com/packages/simple/ foo

Or, once it has been mirrored, prefix you ``requirements.txt`` with
``--use-index=...``::

    $ cat requirements.txt
    --use-index=http://example.com/packages/simple/
    foo==1.2


Keywords
========

* Mirror PyPI
* Offline PyPI
* Create offline PyPI mirror
